Pet Game


Summary
This animal caring game allows the player to select and raise their own pets by petting, playing, feeding, and washing them! The objective is to love and care for their pets by reaching maximum affection. They start off by choosing one dog, but after reaching maximum affection, are allowed to select others.




Project Choice: Web game design
Game Title: “Pet Playtime!” (idk this sounds goofy)


Purpose of the Game
GOAL: To max out the pet’s affection meter by learning how to take care of the pet.
This game is intended to provide a fun and cozy experience while still being engaging and interesting. Geared towards kids, this game encourages young people to learn about animals and keep track of their needs within a simplified game, ultimately aiming to gently educate them about how to properly care for their pets.


TARGET AUDIENCE
* Ages: All, but geared towards young people
* Gender: Any
* Interests: Collectors, completionists, cute animal games, taking care of animals, simple and comforting games


Design: Fundamental Elements
1. Starting screen
   1. Selector: At the start of the game, the player will need to select one of three dog breeds (preferably dog breeds that are known to be easy to take care of, like a golden retriever and such). This will determine the appearance of this dog. The player cannot switch or reselect dogs again until they max out the affection level.
   2. Name: The player has to type in a name for their dog.
      1. Censorship: Basic stuff that blocks inappropriate comments. Since this is a game primarily targeted towards a young audience, this censorship should be a little bit stricter than usual.
2. Affection meter
   1. The most important meter. All the care actions below are the main ways the player can raise their affection with their pet.
      1. Affection level: The visible level that the pet is currently at. The player’s pet will always start at level 0. The max is 10. The higher the level, the higher amount of affection points the player will need to earn in order to level up.
         1. (For clarification: from level 9 -> level 10, the player only needs to fill level 9’s affection meter; once the player does so, the pet is considered to be maxed out, which can be shown through a boolean.)
3. Care features (petting, feeding, bathing)
   1. These features all require the player to perform and complete specific actions (as stated). Once completed, the pet will gain 50 base points into its affection meter.


Design: Extra Fun/Better Elements
(These are not required by anyone, but I do like them a lot and think that they make this game special!)
1. Minigames + currency system


Design: Aesthetics
Theme: Cutesy, Simple (simple, large, colorful buttons for the most important features; the visual layout is easy to navigate, especially since it is aimed for kids’ learning)
Imagery + Iconography: Cute artstyle (not detailed, and should not have too many lines)
Color Palette: Any pastel colors as a background, with brighter/saturated colors for the more important areas of the screen.
Typography
* The font style is simple + bubbly
* Although the methods and variables can be as complexly-named as needed, the text on the screen should contain simple words that are commonly known/can be easily understood by kids